Work with Docker in Travis CI
First, we define the CI requirements as follows:

- The CI should be triggered only when a commit is pushed to the master branch or when a pull request is merged to the master branch.
- The CI should build a Docker image of the application.
- Automated tests should run to ensure that new changes don’t break existing features. If a test fails, the build should fail.
- Finally, if the previous steps succeed, the built Docker image should be pushed to a Docker registry.

There are two external dependencies from the requirements above:

(A) : Docker repository: To push the Docker image to a registry, we need to create an image repository for the image.
(B) : Access credentials: For the CI to be able to push to a repository, it needs to be authenticated with valid access credentials.

1 - Create a Docker image repository
2 - Generate a Docker Hub access token
3 - Create Docker Hub access credentials as GitHub Secrets
	Click on the project and click the “Project Setting” at the right pane.
	From the left navigation menu, click “Add environment variables.”
	Enter DOCKER_USERNAME as the name of the variable and the Docker Hub username as the value.
	Add another environment variable.
	Type in DOCKER_TOKEN as the name of the variable, and the Docker access token created earlier as the value.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Now define the CI configuration : in this case index.yml
- Create the DOCKER_TOKEN environment variable
	In the code above(yaml), we define the env variable DOCKER_USERNAME. So, we also need to define the DOCKER_TOKEN. 
        Since DOCKER_TOKEN is sensitive data, we need to take a different approach. Therefore, we define it as an environment variable in the repository settings in Travis CI. To do this, we follow the steps below:

	Log in to Travis.
	Navigate to the repository in question.
	Choose “Settings” from the “More Options” menu.
	Click on “Add new variable” in the “Environment Variables” section.
	Select “master” as the branch name.
	Type DOCKER_TOKEN as the key and paste the token as the value.

- After defining the DOCKER_TOKEN, a commit or merge to the master branch will trigger a new build.